README.md, before:

# mdcheckr [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mike42/mdcheckr.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mike42/mdcheckr)

`mdcheckr` is a testing tool to detect quality problems with your Markdown documentation. It is designed to act as a quality gate in your continuous integration pipeline.

- **Syntax errors in code blocks** - Syntax-check code blocks that identify their language. Currently works for:
  - bash ([example](tests/04_codeblock_bash_bad.md))
  - PHP ([example](tests/05_codeblock_php_bad.md))
- **Code blocks**- Detection of un-closed code blocks ([example](tests/06_codeblock_plain_bad.md))
- **Broken links**- Flag files that link to relative paths or URLs on the internet which can't be accessed ([example](tests/00_rel_link_bad.md), [example](tests/01_abs_link_bad.md)).
- **Broken images**- Detect broken embeds, local and remote ([example](tests/02_rel_img_bad.md), [example](tests/03_abs_image_bad.md)).

This tool is not intended to enforce a code style, and will not critique aspects of your Markdown code which do not affect the output.

## Dependencies

Requirements:

- curl
- xmllint
- pandoc

## Installation

### Operating systems

#### Ubuntu

These may be installed from the [mike42/mdcheckr](https://launchpad.net/~mike42/+archive/ubuntu/mdcheckr) PPA (Notes for Travis CI users: [Installing Dependencies](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/installing-dependencies/))

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:mike42/mdcheckr
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install mdcheckr
```

#### Debian

Fetch the Debian package from [releases](https://github.com/mike42/mdcheckr/releases).

```bash
sudo dpkg -i mdcheckr_x.y-z_all.deb
sudo apt-get -f install
```

#### Redhat-based distrbutions

Fetch the RPM package from [releases](https://github.com/mike42/mdcheckr/releases).

```bash
yum -y install epel-release
yum -y install which pandoc libxml2 mdcheckr-x.y-z.noarch.rpm
ln -s /usr/bin/mktemp /usr/bin/tempfile
```

This package should be considered a preview only, and is currently being produced with [Alien](https://wiki.debian.org/Alien).

### Install from source

If the dependencies are available on your system, just copy the shell script itself to `/usr/local/bin`:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mike42/mdcheckr/master/mdcheckr -o mdcheckr
chmod +x mdcheckr
sudo cp mdcheckr /usr/local/bin
```

## Usage

```
mdcheckr [ -h | --help ] [ -v | --version ] FILE ..
```

## Examples

Check a single markdown file:

```
mdcheckr README.md
```

Check all the markdown files in the current directory:

```
find . -name '*.md' -print0 | xargs -0 mdcheckr
```

Check all the markdown files in your Git repository:

```bash
git ls-files | grep '\.md$' | tr '\n' '\0' | xargs -0 mdcheckr
```

Commit message:

Updated Readme for Mac OS Install Instructionss
Updated Readme for OS X

README.md, after:

# mdcheckr [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/mike42/mdcheckr.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/mike42/mdcheckr)

`mdcheckr` is a testing tool to detect quality problems with your Markdown documentation. It is designed to act as a quality gate in your continuous integration pipeline.

- **Syntax errors in code blocks** - Syntax-check code blocks that identify their language. Currently works for:
  - bash ([example](tests/04_codeblock_bash_bad.md))
  - PHP ([example](tests/05_codeblock_php_bad.md))
- **Code blocks**- Detection of un-closed code blocks ([example](tests/06_codeblock_plain_bad.md))
- **Broken links**- Flag files that link to relative paths or URLs on the internet which can't be accessed ([example](tests/00_rel_link_bad.md), [example](tests/01_abs_link_bad.md)).
- **Broken images**- Detect broken embeds, local and remote ([example](tests/02_rel_img_bad.md), [example](tests/03_abs_image_bad.md)).

This tool is not intended to enforce a code style, and will not critique aspects of your Markdown code which do not affect the output.

## Dependencies

Requirements:

- curl
- xmllint
- pandoc

## Installation

### Operating systems

#### Ubuntu

These may be installed from the [mike42/mdcheckr](https://launchpad.net/~mike42/+archive/ubuntu/mdcheckr) PPA (Notes for Travis CI users: [Installing Dependencies](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/installing-dependencies/))

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:mike42/mdcheckr
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install mdcheckr
```

#### Debian

Fetch the Debian package from [releases](https://github.com/mike42/mdcheckr/releases).

```bash
sudo dpkg -i mdcheckr_x.y-z_all.deb
sudo apt-get -f install
```

#### Redhat-based distrbutions

Fetch the RPM package from [releases](https://github.com/mike42/mdcheckr/releases).

```bash
yum -y install epel-release
yum -y install which pandoc libxml2 mdcheckr-x.y-z.noarch.rpm
ln -s /usr/bin/mktemp /usr/bin/tempfile
```

This package should be considered a preview only, and is currently being produced with [Alien](https://wiki.debian.org/Alien).

#### Apple Mac OS distributions

You will still need to follow "install from source" instructions. However you need to ensure the dependency of Pandadoc is installed on your mac. Pleasse ensure you have [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) installed first.

```bash
brew update
brew install pandoc
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mike42/mdcheckr/master/mdcheckr -o mdcheckr
chmod +x mdcheckr
sudo mv mdcheckr /usr/local/bin
```

### Install from source

If the dependencies are available on your system, just copy the shell script itself to `/usr/local/bin`:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mike42/mdcheckr/master/mdcheckr -o mdcheckr
chmod +x mdcheckr
sudo cp mdcheckr /usr/local/bin
```

## Usage

```
mdcheckr [ -h | --help ] [ -v | --version ] FILE ..
```

## Examples

Check a single markdown file:

```
mdcheckr README.md
```

Check all the markdown files in the current directory:

```
find . -name '*.md' -print0 | xargs -0 mdcheckr
```

Check all the markdown files in your Git repository:

```bash
git ls-files | grep '\.md$' | tr '\n' '\0' | xargs -0 mdcheckr
```
